Results
To examine a strategy for teacher educators to integrate technology into planning for literacy instruction (CAEP, 2016; ISTE, 2019) and contribute to research on technology integration frameworks and technology integration models (e.g., Mishra & Koehler, 2006; Thomas et al., 2013), this study explored the instructor’s pedagogical approach in accordance with the gradual release of responsibility model (Pearson et al., 2019). Evidence collected from this study shows that within each pedagogical approach, preservice teachers used the iPad to plan instruction as influenced by the instructor’s pedagogical approach.
Teacher in Control Raised Concerns about Planning
Teacher in Control is a teacher-centered instructional approach where the instructor provides step-by-step directions on how to use a specific app to teach a targeted reading skill or strategy. When the instructor implemented the Teacher in Control pedagogical approach during the first and second iPad workshops, preservice teachers expressed concern for their ability to identify and integrate apps into their curriculum planning.
Workshop one. During the first workshop, preservice teachers required prompting by the instructor to explore the preloaded apps. Here, preservice teachers repeatedly requested directives on how to navigate the iPad and use each downloaded app, and generated the highest frequency of inquiries. A repetitive concern made by preservice teachers included, “I just don’t know what to do with the apps.” This required the instructor to show preservice teachers an exact app to use and what to do within each app. Interestingly, preservice teachers only used apps that
TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 19
were preloaded to the iPad, rather than exploring the enabled app store to discover and download new apps. Data-based observations during workshop one indicate preservice teachers were reticent to explore the technology.
Survey data provides additional support to demonstrate preservice teachers’ concern about how they could integrate the iPad into their future classrooms. Preservice teachers noted that using technology “certainly takes time” because “the teacher must be prepared and fully understand how the app works before allowing the children to use it.” Another preservice teacher expressed a similar focus on the need to be intentional, “it takes a lot more planning than I would have thought. You also have to think about incorporating a technology aspect into lesson plans WHILE creating the lessons, and not after.” To echo the need for thoughtful planning, “teachers also need to incorporate technology when beginning lesson planning so they do not have to redo the entire thing.” Because once a lesson plan is developed, “teachers have to make sure the students know how to use the app and the assignment is appropriate for the students' level.” Also emphasized was the importance for teachers to become familiar with an app “before starting on an assignment to prevent any confusion or frustration for the students.”
Following workshop one, it was clear that preservice teachers did not feel comfortable using the iPad as a part of their instructional planning. For example, using the iPad to support learning “was more difficult than I thought it would be. Making the technology age appropriate and usable was a challenge.” Others shared that using technology is “going to be difficult because I'm not tech savvy despite growing up with technology. I have a tablet that I use once every two weeks so it's not something I'm extremely familiar with.” Another preservice teacher worried about students’ use of the technology in the classroom because, “I also feel it could be distracting. I've seen other teachers ask students to lower volume and after so many requests the

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 20
iPad is confiscated.” Based on the expressed concerns during the initial workshop, preservice teachers were hesitant to integrate iPads into their future classrooms.
Workshop two. Although preservice teachers were given the choice to conduct a shared or guided reading lesson using any app of their choice, approximately 60% selected the same app demonstrated by the instructor.
Following workshop two, there appeared to be an overall positive shift in thinking toward how the iPad could be integrated into future literacy instruction. For example, “I have learned it's easier than I thought.” After some time becoming familiar with educational affordances of the iPad, one preservice teacher said, “I found out that iPads can be used in many more ways than I thought. They can let the students create things and are also great for read aloud and can be used in stations or small groups.” Moreover, another started to recognize these action potentials of the iPad, “there's a lot of free and very cool resources that I never even knew existed! This makes me very excited to integrate technology into my class to make learning more interactive and enjoyable for my students.”
Despite an increased understanding of the iPad and its affordances, not all preservice teachers were eager to use the iPad to plan literacy instruction. For some, the experience of using the iPad to plan instruction was “not my favorite. I prefer books over tablets. I have a nook that was gifted to me for Christmas & I have no idea where it is because I never used it. It’s still in the original packaging.” Others felt that the iPad “can be pretty difficult,” with one reason being, “not all apps are user friendly and should be taken into consideration for your students.” Upon reflection of the mixed emotions on the potentials and pitfalls of using the iPad to support literacy development, the next two workshops examined the influence of the Teacher as Facilitator pedagogical approach.

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 21
Teacher as Facilitator Led to Increased User Confidence and Exploration
Under the Teacher as Facilitator pedagogical approach during workshops three and four, the instructor provided a target literacy skill and suggested apps. In this way, the instructor acted as a guide, to assist preservice teachers in developing early literacy learning activities. Therefore, preservice teachers made the decision of how to align a literacy skill to an app, with little instructor assistance. This approach helped preservice teachers gain confidence to explore apps, which led to increased inquiry and broadly applied uses of iPad apps.
Workshop three. To demonstrate the task of connecting literacy skills with apps, this preservice teacher is showing how to teach diphthongs with an app she found on her own (Figure 1).
Figure 1. Preservice teacher demonstrates an app during iPad workshop three (Teacher as Facilitator).
Under Teacher as Facilitator, preservice teachers demonstrated critical thinking regarding strategies for how apps could support literacy learning and connect to state and national

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 22
standards. Preservice teachers admitted the task “was difficult for my group to figure out how to implement the app into a center but when we figured it out, it was a good idea.” Once in agreement, “we decided on using Starfall, there's an interesting component to it named Chunk that Word. It teaches the student how to decode, and blend. I thought it was really interesting how the turkey chops the word into syllables.” In another group, Starfall was also the selected app, and the proposed plan was to use “the app to sound out each word to read the story Gus The Duck,” and “after reading the book they will play both literacy games that go along with the story (e.g., word making game, matching game). This activity is an interactive way to slow down and clarify words and to read a story.” A second group took the initiative to download a new app to the iPad:
We used the app Chicken Little. The group is expected to read a story (it plays out loud) and then they have to sequence events of the story by matching pictures (scenes) in the order they happened. Then they have to retell the story in their own words by recording their voice.
Other preservice teachers demonstrated how a traditional print method could be combined with the iPad. To illustrate, “we used partners in rhyme to find five different pairs of rhyming [words] and write them on note cards. We then posted it to Seesaw for them to get with a partner and read their rhymes.”
Workshop four. During this workshop, preservice teachers were encouraged to locate an app that would enable them to create a vocabulary video (e.g., Adobe Spark Video, iMovie). All but one preservice teacher responded positively to the workshop and said they could envision themselves using the iPad to support students’ vocabulary development. Overall, the survey data indicated that “video creator apps can help support traditional print instruction through providing

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 23
student chosen visual aids that they are more likely to remember.” The act of creating a video “is definitely a more interactive learning experience and it gets you up and moving around.” Others raved about how “super easy and user-friendly” it would be to have students create their own vocabulary videos to acquire new vocabulary because it “allows students to make a connection to a vocab word in their own way, ultimately helping them remember it easier.” Data also highlights how the iPad can support language development and students’ varying learning preferences. To illustrate how this vocabulary strategy was helpful, one preservice teacher reflected,
I wish this was a thing back when I was in elementary/middle school. When studying for these types of tests when I was younger, I would make little connections in my head. But it's super helpful if not only you have a verbal connection, but a visual connection as well.
In thinking further about individual learners, this activity “can help ELL (English Language Learner) students learn the meaning of words by looking at pictures and words that go along with the pictures leading up to the vocabulary word instead of reading a long definition of the word.” One preservice teacher thought using the iPad to support vocabulary instruction,
was by far one of the coolest ways that I have learned in my pre-service teaching career to introduce new vocabulary words to students. It was a great way to personalize what we gained from the reading and express our thoughts about what the word, truculent, means to us.
During these two Teacher as Facilitator workshops, preservice teachers became more confident with the idea of integrating technology into their future instruction, evidenced by their increased willingness to navigate to the apps downloaded to the iPad. Under this pedagogical approach,

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 24
this was the first instance where preservice teachers searched for other apps in the AppleTM store, and made connections between app functions and alignment to literacy skills and standards. With this demonstrated increase in confidence and familiarity with the iPad, preservice teachers appeared ready for the instructor to shift to the student-led Problem-based Learning pedagogical approach.
Problem-based Learning Led to Comprehensive Instructional Planning
The Problem-based Learning approach reflects the most student-centered pedagogical approach, in accordance with the gradual release of responsibility model (Pearson et al., 2019).
Workshop five. Preservice teachers valued the Problem Based Learning pedagogical structure because it led to the design of more comprehensive lessons that could be implemented within their future classrooms. A request was made to “have more scenarios that apply to us like the last workshop,” because as stated by another preservice teacher, it was “my favorite day.” Moreover, the last workshop “was my favorite one and I feel like I learned a lot more today and it helped having an actual student to apply it to.”
Survey data indicates the importance of engaging preservice teachers in activities that mimic student use in the classroom. One preservice teacher shared how this workshop “really helped me understand how to truly implement technology into lessons and be creative. I love that we got to learn how to use the apps and actually make what the students would make.” For example, the group that designed an intervention to support kindergarten Science literacy selected eight bilingual and Spanish only books from the Epic! app (an interactive digital book app, free for teachers). One of the digital books included in the list for students to read was El Mamut Lanudo, which translates in English to The Wooly Mammoth. Preservice teachers constructed guided reading questions to scaffold students’ comprehension while they read the

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 25
digital book. The lesson involved students reading both books as many times as needed to improve fluency and work together to discuss the text. Then, students would retell the story in their own words using the Story Creator or Toontastic app. This was also the first time a preservice teacher suggested more than one app to teach a specific literacy skill.
The Problem-based Learning approach situated instructional planning within a realistic setting, and led preservice teachers to engage in rich discussions and imagine how they would design instruction within their own classroom. To emphasize its value, one preservice teacher begged, “one thing you must keep in the curriculum is the case study. I liked it because it was an actual application of what the workshop taught me, and it could, and probably will, happen in our careers as teachers.” Ultimately, data from this workshop resulted in the design of more comprehensive instruction. Lessons were more comprehensive because they included students using the iPad to read, write, and collaborate with peers to discuss and analyze text. Applying the Problem-based Learning pedagogical approach enabled preservice teachers to use the iPad to create individualized literacy-learning opportunities.
Collective Workshop Reflection
Reflections from preservice teachers indicate they valued the hands-on technology experiences because they were able to explore the technology, and this enabled them to envision themselves using technology to design future instruction. Preservice teachers appeared appreciative of the preloaded apps, with similar requests that the instructor “must keep a list of iPad apps to use in the classroom.” One preservice teacher admitted that initially they “struggled in the beginning because I had no clue about some of these apps.” To explain, with no prior technology integration experiences within the teacher preparation program, “things took longer

TPACK’S PEDAGOGY AND THE GRADUAL RELEASE 26
than necessary due to user inability.” A preservice teacher echoed the importance of being able to engage with the technology,
I found the workshops useful for introducing me to apps that are easily incorporated into students’ learning. I knew there were apps out there for this of course, but being able to experiment with HOW to use the apps was helpful. I was even able to use what I learned from these workshops in multiple lesson plan activities.
Another preservice teacher described an increase in her self-efficacy, emphasizing how much she “really liked the iPad workshops, because it makes me more confident in using technology for teaching.” Engaging with hands-on technology experiences “gave me insight into an aspect of teaching that I had never considered before.” Working together in small groups was also valued because this technique was helpful “pairing up [with] groups and having them do the other groups assessments/work so we can get more ideas.” Ultimately, preservice teachers “really enjoyed this experience. I learned a lot of different ways that we can use iPads in the classroom in order to teach children literacy.”